Simplified CR convertor (#4457)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: api-conversion/README.md

# API Conversion CLI Tool

> With Strimzi's CRD evolving, there needs to be a way to easily migrate existing CR configuration to the new CRD schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Strimzi's CRD evolving, there needs to be a way to easily migrate existing custom resource configuration to the new CRD schema.
```

> That is why we introduced the `v1beta2` version of the schema which removes several deprecated fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is why we introduced the `v1beta2` version of the schema, which removes several deprecated fields.
```

To make it as easy as possible to convert existing Strimzi custom resources, a conversion tool is provided.

The tool can operate in two modes:
* Converting YAML files
* Converting Kubernetes resources

You can list the available features using the `help` command:

```
> bin/api-conversion.sh help
Usage: bin/api-conversion.sh [-hV] [COMMAND]
Conversion tool for Strimzi Custom Resources

>   -h, --help      Show this help message and exit.
>   -V, --version   Print version information and exit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -h, --help      Show this help message and exit
  -V, --version   Print version information and exit
```

Author: This is generated by the PicoCLI library. I can delete it from the README, but not from the actual output. So I would leave it as it is.

Commands:
  help                  Displays help information about the specified command
  convert-file, cf      Convert custom resources from a YAML file
  convert-resource, cr  Convert custom resources directly in Kubernetes
```

## Converting YAML files with custom resources

One way to use the tool is to convert YAML files. 
The converted YAML files can be applied to your Kubernetes cluster either directly or for example using GitOps mechanism.
The input YAML file is specified using the `--file` option.

> The converted YAML will be by default printed to standard output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the converted YAML is printed to standard output.

You can use the `--in-place` option to write the converted YAML into the original source file.
Alternatively, you can create a new YAML file for the conversion using the `--output` option.

> Following example commands show how the tool can be used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example commands show how the tool is used:
```

```
# Convert input.yaml and print the converted resource to standard output
bin/api-conversion.sh convert-file --file input.yaml

# Read resources from input.yaml, convert it, and store it in input.yaml
bin/api-conversion.sh convert-file --file input.yaml --in-place

# Read resources from input.yaml, convert it, and store it in output.yaml
bin/api-conversion.sh convert-file --file input.yaml --output output.yaml
```

The convertor supports multi-document YAMLs.

> When your input YAML contains multiple Strimzi custom resources, they will be all converted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your input YAML contains multiple Strimzi custom resources, they are all converted.
```

> If the input YAML also contains any other Kubernetes resources, they will be kept in the output file without being modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the input YAML also contains any other Kubernetes resources, they are kept in the output file without being modified.
```

You can also list the help for the file conversion:

```
> bin/api-conversion.sh help convert-file
Usage: bin/api-conversion.sh convert-file [-d] -f=<inputFile> [-ll=<level>]
       [-o=<outputFile> | [--in-place]]
Convert Custom Resources from YAML file
  -d, --debug              Runs the tool in debug mode
  -f, --file=<inputFile>   Specifies the YAML file for the custom resource being converted
      --in-place           Applies the changes directly to the input file
                             specified by --file
      -ll, --log-level=<level>
                           Sets the log level to enable logging
  -o, --output=<outputFile>

>                           Creates an output YAML file for the converted custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                          Creates an output YAML file for the converted custom resource
```

```

## Converting Kubernetes resources

You can also use the tool to convert Strimzi custom resources directly in your Kubernetes cluster.

You can use the `--kind` option to specify one or more kinds of Strimzi resources.

> If you do not specify any Kind, the tool will convert Strimzi resources of all kinds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not specify any kind, the tool will convert Strimzi resources of all kinds.
```

> The `--namespace` option can be used to specify a namespace in which the resources should be converted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--namespace` option targets the custom resources in a specified namespace for conversion.
```

You can also use `--all-namespace` to convert resources in the whole Kubernetes cluster.

> When neither `--namespace` nor `--all-namespace` is specified your current namespace will used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If neither `--namespace` nor `--all-namespace` is specified your current namespace will used.
```

> If you want to convert only one resource, you can also use the combination of `--name` and `--kind` options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to convert only one resource, you can also use a combination of `--name` and `--kind` options.
```

> Following example commands show how the tool can be used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example commands show how the tool can be used:
```

# API Conversion CLI Tool

With Strimzi's CRD evolving, there needs to be a way to easily migrate existing CR configuration to the new CRD schema.
That is why we introduced the `v1beta2` version of the schema which removes several deprecated fields.

> To make it as easy as possible to convert the existing custom resources, we provide this conversion tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make it as easy as possible to convert existing Strimzi custom resources, a conversion tool is provided.
```

The tool can operate in two modes:
* Converting YAML files
* Converting Kubernetes resources

You can list the available features using the `help` command:

```
> bin/api-conversion.sh help
Usage: bin/api-conversion.sh [-hV] [COMMAND]
Conversion tool for Strimzi Custom Resources
  -h, --help      Show this help message and exit.
  -V, --version   Print version information and exit.
Commands:
  help                  Displays help information about the specified command

>   convert-file, cf      Convert Custom Resources from YAML file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  convert-file, cf      Convert custom resources from a YAML file
```

>   convert-resource, cr  Convert Custom Resources directly in Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  convert-resource, cr  Convert custom resources directly in Kubernetes
```

```

## Converting YAML files with custom resources

One way to use the tool is to convert YAML files. 
The converted YAML files can be applied to your Kubernetes cluster either directly or for example using GitOps mechanism.
The input YAML file is specified using the `--file` option.

The converted YAML will be by default printed to standard output.

> You can use the additional options `--in-place` to write the converted YAML into the original source file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `--in-place` option to write the converted YAML into the original source file.
```

> You can also specify another output file using the `--output` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can create a new YAML file for the conversion using the `--output` option.
```

Following example commands show how the tool can be used:

```
# Convert input.yaml and print the converted resource to standard output
bin/api-conversion.sh convert-file --file input.yaml

# Read resources from input.yaml, convert it, and store it in input.yaml
bin/api-conversion.sh convert-file --file input.yaml --in-place

# Read resources from input.yaml, convert it, and store it in output.yaml
bin/api-conversion.sh convert-file --file input.yaml --output output.yaml
```

The convertor supports multi-document YAMLs.
When your input YAML contains multiple Strimzi custom resources, they will be all converted.

> If the input YAL also contains any other Kubernetes resources, they will be kept in the output file without being modified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the input YAML also contains any other Kubernetes resources, they will be kept in the output file without being modified.
```

You can also list the help for the file conversion:

```
> bin/api-conversion.sh help convert-file
Usage: bin/api-conversion.sh convert-file [-d] -f=<inputFile> [-ll=<level>]
       [-o=<outputFile> | [--in-place]]
Convert Custom Resources from YAML file

>   -d, --debug              Use debug

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -d, --debug              Runs the tool in debug mode
```

Reviewer 2: Is this "debug mode" as in "attach a debugger" or debug logging, or something else?

>   -f, --file=<inputFile>   The YAML file with the Strimzi Custom Resource which
>                              should be converted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -f, --file=<inputFile>   The YAML file for the Strimzi custom resource being converted
```

      --in-place           Apply the changes directly to the input file
                             specified by --file
      -ll, --log-level=<level>

>                            Set log level to enable logging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                           Sets the log level to enable logging
```

  -o, --output=<outputFile>
                           The output YAML file with the converted Strimzi

>                              Custom Resource

Reviewer: Creates an output YAML file for the converted custom resource.

>                            The output YAML file with the converted Strimzi
>                              Custom Resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                          Creates an output YAML file for the converted custom resource.
```

```

## Converting Kubernetes resources

You can also use the tool to convert Strimzi custom resources directly in your Kubernetes cluster.

You can use the `--kind` option to specify one or more kinds of Strimzi resources.

> If you do not specify any Kind, the tool will convert resources of all kinds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do not specify any Kind, the tool will convert Strimzi resources of all kinds.
```
